## Improving user engagement with interactive charts and tables

### A look behind the scenes

At Statistics Austria, we are currently working towards the release of a new website.
This offers several opportunities to modernize the look and feel of our statistical products.
One of those opportunities is a stronger usage of interactive charts and interactive tables (**C&Ts**).

It is planned to use those **C&Ts** on a large scale and include them in most
of our website articles rather than limiting ourselves to selected statistical products.
In order to facilitate that, it is necessary to decentralize the underlying workflow.

The first part of this presentation will showcase a "chart and table builder" **web application**,
which allows non-javascript-wizards to create **C&Ts** with just a few clicks.
The **web application** will be used by the authors of our website articles to include those engaging components without assistance from developers or designers.

**C&Ts** are created using the state-of-the-art javascript packages **highcharts.js** and **datatables.js**.
Those packages give easy and reliable access to features like zoomable graphs, tooltips, sortable tables and customizable styling.
The styling was thoughtfully coordinated with the front-end design of the remaining website.

The second part of the presentation will deal with the interface between the **web application** and
the content management system (**CMS**), where the rest of the website articles are written.
For this purpose, a **REST API** was developed which is capable of storing and rendering the **C&Ts** which were generated by the **web application**.

The third and final part will briefly cover the most important technologies that were used to set up the **web application** and the corresponding **REST API**.
This includes popular R packages like **shiny** and **plumber**.
This part will also feature the open source R package **STATcubeR**, which was developed for the data import.
